# Dietary-Habits-and-Obestity

In this project we used data from the United Nations to discover if there were any significant relationship between global dietary habits and obesity. To achieve this we used both the standard linear regression model and compared this with various iterations of machine learning-based linear regression. 

You can view the juyptyer notebook [here](https://github.com/AndrewspWhite/Dietary-Habits-and-Obestity/blob/main/AndrewWhite_Capstone.ipynb) and get a visual representation and general overview in [Tableau Public](https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/andrew.white7113/viz/Capstone_Tableau_Diet_Obesity_Andrew_White/Story1).

The results of this analysis indicated that there is a significant moderate correlation between obesity from calories consumed from foods that are in high dietary fat, regardless of whether they were animal or plant-based in origin. However, two foods - sugar and vegetable oils - often found in processed junk foods were also part of our final list. There are many questions and further areas of exploration that can be derived from this. When we look at obese populations, it looks like these processed foods are likely culprit. When we look at the least obese populations, we find that foods such as meat and eggs - foods that were positively correlated with obesity - made up a fairly substantial part of their diet. This leads us to wonder if other factors not included in this dataset will also be significant contributors to obesity such as: the ratio of rural to urban population; physical activity rates of the population; economic status; overconsumption of calories in general; and finally, how highly correlated foods might be consumed with other highly correlated foods. 
